OK so in this video we're going to be looking at how we can add remove primary keys from our table using
the table command.
You can see I've already typed.
Ask your old code which we need to use to add and remove Prime McKay's So to add a primary key we need
to type out a table followed by the table name.
And then we type add primary key followed by the column name which we want as our primary key in brackets
and then end with a semi-colon and then to remove a primary key from a table.
We need to type out a table followed by the table name and then type drop primary key.
So let's go for an example of adding a primary key to a table.
So let's add a primary key to the addresses table in a test database.
So the first thing I want to do is I want to type describe addresses.
And that's because I want to show you something about the addresses table before we are our primary
key.
So let's run that command and you can see here that we have information on our addresses table.
So we have all columns here.
We have that data type we have whether they can contain no values and we can see they can all contain
no values and then we have this column called key and that's the one I want to look at.
So you can see here that all of them are blank.
All the columns are blank and this key and this is the column which is going to change is going to show
which columns are primary keys which columns of foreign keys.
So this is going to change once we've had our primary key to our addresses table.
So let's do that now.
Let's make this ID field primary key.
So to do that we need to come in here and we need to type out a table followed by the table name so
addresses in this case and then we need to add primary key open a pair of brackets and with the semi-colon
and within the brackets we just need to type column name.
So in this case it's just ID and we can run that statement and then we can run describe addresses again
so we get that information about the addresses table back and you can see now that two things have changed
for this ID field.
You can see that now it states in the key column that it is a primary key the ID field and you can also
see that it now no longer accepts no values.
And that's because in a primary key column you can enter no values.
So this now has switched from yes to no.
So that's how we add primary keys to tables.
Now let's have a look at removing a primary key.
So let's just remove this primary key for this ID field and the addresses table.
So to do that what we need to do is we need to type out the table again followed by the table name so
as addresses again and then we just need to type drop primary key.
We don't need to state the column just draw a primary key.
We can run this and then let's check by running.
Describe addresses again.
And you can see that now under this key column we no longer have the primary key for the ID field.
But there's no value has not changed.
So we haven't changed and there's no constraint.
The ID field can no longer accept no values.
So just be aware when you drop a primary key column in a table it's not going to change the fact of
whether it can accept no values.
It's still going to be set to No.
And now let's have a look at the people table.
So let's type describe people and run that query
and you can see we have the same set up that we had with the addresses table of all columns can accept
no values and none of them are set primary keys.
So as a mini challenge now I want you to post the video and add your own primary key to the ID field
in the People table.
So post the video and I'll be back with the solution in a second.
OK I'm back and I'm sure you were able to do this or we need to right was on the table.
And then the table name people and then type at primary key and it's the ID field again so we just had
to pretty much just change the table name.
And if we describe people again we can see that now we have this primary case for the ID field.
And it can no longer x no values.
So if I up primary key to the ID field and the people say well OK so that's it for adding and removing
primary keys from a table.
So let's move on to the next video.